---
layout: project
permalink: /us-web-design-standards/
short-title:  "U.S. Web Design Standards"
long-title: "Draft U.S. Web Design Standards"
categories: ux
thumbnail: " " 
mobile-image: " "
img-path: '../img/'
---

## Brief ##

The Draft U.S. Web Design Standards is an open-source pattern library and visual style guide to help government agencies quickly stand up accessible and responsive websites. I worked with the initial product team that took the project from concept to first release. I began work on this project during my first week of employment and presented early research to stakeholders three weeks later. 

## What I Did ##

* Conducted remote and in-person user and stakeholder interviews to surface goals, pain points, and needs 
* Conducted a comparative analysis of other public and private sector pattern libraries and front-end frameworks
* Through interviews, discovered that accessibility and Section 508 conformance is a key challenge for our users, which led to this being a key factor in prioritizing features. 
* Developed and maintained a set of user archetypes to represent government tech workers, the primary users of the library.
* Researched and applied best practices in pattern library development, microinteractions, and UI design
* Developed and tested the information architecture of the site
* Conducted usability testing both with government tech workers who would use the library, as well as members of the general public who would ultimately benefit from it
* Contributed to MVP planning and identifying project milestones
* Wrote documentation for best practices in using various UI components and maintaining accessibility
* Developed and executed a system for prioritizing bug fixes 
* Developed an executed a plan for mobile testing library components across multiple devices
* Conducted remote collaborative design sessions with project stakeholders to prioritize feature development and releases
* Developed a component maturity scale to communicate the robustness of individual designs within the library

<!-- Image: wireframes --> 
<!-- Image: research interview? --> 
<!-- Image: WDS user archetype --> 
<!-- Image: WDS navigation evolution --> 
<!-- Image: pretty WDS screenshots --> 


## Key Tools and Deliverables ##
<ul class="skill-pills">
	<li>facilitating design discussions</li>
	<li>collaborative design sessions</li>
	<li>GitHub</li>
	<li>user archetypes</li>
	<li>wireframes</li>
	<li>user interviews</li>
	<li>usability testing</li>
	<li>affinity diagramming</li>
</ul>

## Results ##

The [Draft U.S. Web Design Standards](https://standards.usa.gov) launched an alpha version in the fall of 2014 and received wide acclaim. The GitHub repo quickly became 18F’s most forked (over 400 copies) and starred (over 3,000 stars) project. Teams from various federal agencies have reported back on its ease of use, accessible foundation, and clean design, while also saving the team on development time. The standards have been used in projects for the Veterans Affairs Administration, the Office of Personnel Management ([USAJobs.gov](https://www.usajobs.gov)), the Environmental Protection Agency ([epa.gov](https://www.epa.gov)), and various other public and private sector organizations.